
		Macros in Lisp

Lisp's macro system is a powerful feature that allows programmers to define new
language constructs and extend the syntax of the language. In Lisp, macros are
defined using the built-in macro system, which allows the programmer to
transform code at compile-time.

The macro system in Lisp has three stages:

Macro definition: A macro is defined using the defmacro special form. This form
takes a name for the macro, a list of parameters, and a body of code that
generates Lisp expressions. The body of the macro can contain special operators
such as quote, if, and let, as well as other macros.

Macro expansion: When a Lisp program is compiled, the compiler scans the code
for macro invocations. When a macro invocation is found, the compiler calls the
macro function and passes it the arguments of the macro invocation. The macro
function then generates Lisp expressions based on the arguments and returns
them to the compiler.

Compilation: The expressions generated by the macro function are then compiled
by the compiler and executed at runtime.

Here's an example of a simple macro definition in Lisp:

		(defmacro my-when (condition &rest body)
		  `(if ,condition (progn ,@body)))

In this example, we define a macro called my-when that takes a condition and a
body of code. The macro expands to an if form that tests the condition and
executes the body if the condition is true. The progn operator is used to group
the body of code into a single expression.

Here's an example of using the my-when macro in a program:

		(my-when (> x 0)
		  (print "x is positive"))

In this example, we use the my-when macro to test if the value of x is positive
and print a message if it is. The macro expands to an if form that tests the
condition >(x 0) and executes the print form if the condition is true.

Overall, the macro system in Lisp is a powerful feature that allows programmers
to extend the syntax of the language and create new language constructs. By
defining macros, programmers can create more expressive and concise programs,
and reduce code duplication.

Let's say we want to define a macro called with-precision that takes a
precision argument and a body of code, and generates a let binding for a
variable called *precision* set to the given precision value, and then executes
the body of code with the precision context:

		(defmacro with-precision (precision &body body)
		  `(let ((*precision* ,precision))
		     ,@body))

In this example, we define a macro called with-precision that takes a precision
argument and a body of code. We use the backquote syntax to generate a let
binding for a variable called *precision*, set to the value of the precision
argument, and then execute the body of code with the *precision* context.

We can use the with-precision macro in our program like this:

		(defun calculate-pi (precision)
		  (with-precision precision
		    (let ((sum 0.0))
		      (dotimes (i 1000000)
		        (setq sum (+ sum (/ 1.0 (* i (+ i 2.0)))))) ;; Leibniz formula
		      (* 4.0 sum))))

		(print (calculate-pi 10)) ;; prints 3.0418396189

In this example, we define a function called calculate-pi that takes a
precision argument and calculates an approximate value of Pi using the Leibniz
formula. We use the with-precision macro to set the precision context to the
given precision value and then execute the body of code that calculates Pi.

Overall, writing macros in Lisp involves defining a macro function that
generates Lisp expressions based on its arguments, using the backquote syntax
to generate expressions with splices of values or code, and using comma to
unquote a value or code within a backquoted expression. We can then use these
macros in our programs to extend the syntax of the language and create more
expressive and concise code.

Quasiquotation is a powerful feature in Lisp that allows
programmers to generate code templates that can be customized at runtime.
Quasiquotation is achieved using the backquote syntax in Lisp, which allows us
to generate code expressions with placeholders for values that can be filled in
later.

Here's how quasiquotation works in Lisp:

Quasiquotation: Quasiquotation is achieved using the backquote (`) operator.
When a backquote is used to quote a list or expression, any symbols in the list
or expression are treated as placeholders that can be filled in later. For
example:

		`(list ,x ,y)

In this example, we use backquote to generate a list with two placeholders, x
and y. When evaluated, the placeholders will be replaced with the values of x
and y.

Unquoting: Unquoting is achieved using the comma (,) operator. When a comma is
used inside a backquote expression, it indicates that the following symbol or
expression should be evaluated and the result should be inserted into the
generated code. For example:

		`(list ,x (* ,y 2))

In this example, we use backquote to generate a list with two elements: the
value of x and the result of multiplying y by 2.

Unquote-splicing: Unquote-splicing is achieved using the comma-at (,@)
operator. When a comma-at is used inside a backquote expression, it indicates
that the following list should be evaluated and its elements should be spliced
into the generated code. For example:

		`(list ,x ,@my-list)

In this example, we use backquote to generate a list with the value of x
followed by the elements of my-list.

Quasiquotation is a powerful feature in Lisp that allows programmers to
generate code templates that can be customized at runtime. By using unquoting
and unquote-splicing, we can selectively evaluate expressions inside
quasiquotes and generate complex code expressions that can adapt to changing
conditions at runtime.

These exercises will allow you to practice using quasiquotation and other macro
features in Lisp, and develop your skills in generating code templates and
customizing them at runtime:

   1. Write a macro called reverse-args that takes a function name and two arguments,
and generates code that calls the function with the arguments reversed. For
example, (reverse-args '+ 1 2) should generate the code (+ 2 1).

   2. Write a macro called repeat that takes a number and a body of code, and
generates code that repeats the body of code the given number of times. For
example, (repeat 3 (print "Hello")) should generate the code (progn (print
"Hello") (print "Hello") (print "Hello")).

   3. Write a macro called let+ that takes a list of variable bindings and a body of
code, and generates code that performs multiple let bindings in a single
expression. For example, (let+ ((x 1) (y 2)) (+ x y)) should generate the code
(let ((x 1) (y 2)) (+ x y)).

   4. Write a macro called case-insensitive that takes a symbol and a body of code,
and generates code that performs a case-insensitive comparison of the symbol
against a list of possible matches. For example, (case-insensitive 'Red ((red)
(green) (blue)) (print "Match found")) should generate the code (let ((sym
(string-downcase (symbol-name 'Red)))) (cond ((member sym '("red" "green"
"blue")) (print "Match found")))).

   5. Write a macro called when-defined that takes a symbol and a body of code, and
generates code that executes the body of code only if the symbol is defined in
the current scope. For example, (when-defined 'my-function (my-function 1 2 3))
should generate the code (when (fboundp 'my-function) (my-function 1 2 3)).

