In order to compile and run Lisp code, you need a Lisp implementation. Here are
some popular Lisp implementations:

	- SBCL (Steel Bank Common Lisp)
	- CLISP (Common Lisp)
	- ECL (Embeddable Common Lisp)
	- LispWorks
	- Allegro CL
	- Once you have installed a Lisp implementation, you can save your code in a file
	- with the ".lisp" extension. Then, you can load and execute the code from the
	- Lisp REPL (Read-Eval-Print Loop) by using the (load "filename.lisp") function.

Linux:
To install SBCL (Steel Bank Common Lisp) on a Linux-based system, you can follow these steps:
Open a terminal window.
Update the package list:
		sudo apt update
Install SBCL:
		sudo apt install sbcl
Verify that SBCL is installed:
		sbcl --version

Here is an example of how to compile and run the code in SBCL:

  1. Save the code in a file named "myprogram.lisp".
  2. Open a terminal or command prompt.
  3. Type sbcl to start the SBCL REPL.
  4. Type (load "myprogram.lisp") to load and compile the code.
  5. Type (in-package :cl-user) to switch to the package where the code was loaded.
  6. Type (run) to execute the code.

Note that the exact steps may differ depending on the Lisp implementation you
are using. Also, you can use an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) such
as Emacs with SLIME, LispWorks IDE, or CCLIDE to write, compile, and execute
Lisp code.

Mac:
On a Mac, you can install a Common Lisp implementation such as SBCL or Clozure CL and then use a terminal to compile and run Lisp code.
Here are the general steps to compile Lisp code on a Mac:
  1. Install a Common Lisp implementation such as SBCL or Clozure CL. One way to do this is by using a package manager such as Homebrew. For example, to install SBCL, you can run the command:
		brew install sbcl
  2. Open a terminal window and navigate to the directory where your Lisp code is located.
  3. Start the Lisp REPL (Read-Eval-Print Loop) by running the command:
		sbcl
  4. In the Lisp REPL, load your Lisp file by running the command:
		(load "filename.lisp")
  5. This will compile and load your Lisp code into memory.

To execute a function defined in your Lisp code, simply call the function by name, followed by any arguments. For example:
		(my-function arg1 arg2)
This will execute the my-function function with the arg1 and arg2 arguments.

To exit the Lisp REPL, type (quit) or use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl-D.

Windows:
Here are the steps to install SBCL on Windows and compile a program:
  1. Go to the SBCL website and download the Windows binary distribution from the download page.
  2. Open the downloaded .msi file and follow the installation instructions.
  3. Once installed, open the command prompt and navigate to the directory where your Lisp file is located.
  4. Type sbcl to launch the SBCL interpreter.
  5. In the SBCL interpreter, type (load "filename.lisp") to load your Lisp program.
  6. To compile the program, type (compile-file "filename.lisp"). This will create a compiled file with a .fasl extension.
  7. To run the compiled file, type (load "filename.fasl") in the SBCL interpreter.


