
		Lisp for Web Development

Lisp has a growing presence in web development, with various frameworks and
libraries available for creating web applications. Here are some of the key
capabilities of Lisp in web development:

Web frameworks for Lisp: There are several web frameworks available for Lisp,
including Hunchentoot, Weblocks, and Caveman2. These frameworks provide a set
of tools and conventions for building web applications, including handling HTTP
requests and responses, routing, session management, and handling various types
of data.

Generating HTML with Lisp: Lisp's powerful macros and functional programming
capabilities make it a great language for generating HTML code dynamically.
This can be done with tools like Parenscript, which allows Lisp code to be
compiled into JavaScript, or with libraries like CL-WHO, which provides a DSL
for generating HTML markup in a concise and expressive manner.

Writing RESTful web services with Lisp: Lisp's flexibility and expressiveness
make it a great language for building RESTful web services. This can be done
using frameworks like Hunchentoot, which provides support for creating HTTP
handlers and routing requests to appropriate functions, or with libraries like
Weblocks, which provides a full-stack web framework with support for handling
data, sessions, and authentication.

Overall, Lisp's powerful language features make it a great choice for web
development, especially for applications that require a high level of
customization and flexibility.

Web frameworks such as Hunchentoot and Weblocks make it easy to build web
applications with Lisp by providing a set of tools and abstractions for
handling HTTP requests and generating responses.

Hunchentoot is a popular web server and web application framework for Lisp. It
allows developers to define URL routes using macros, and handles HTTP request
and response processing transparently. Here is an example of a simple
Hunchentoot application that responds to a GET request with a plain text
message:

		(require :hunchentoot)
		
		(defun hello-world-handler (request)
		  (with-output-to-string (stream)
		    (format stream "Hello, world!")))
		
		(defun start-server ()
		  (hunchentoot:start (make-instance 'hunchentoot:acceptor
		                                     :port 8080
		                                     :name "test"
		                                     :document-root nil
		                                     :error-log-file nil
		                                     :access-log-file nil
		                                     :dispatch-table '(("/*" . hello-world-handler))))))

In this example, we define a handler function hello-world-handler that simply
writes the message "Hello, world!" to an output stream. We then define a
function start-server that starts the Hunchentoot server on port 8080 and
registers the hello-world-handler function as the handler for all URL paths.

Weblocks is another popular web framework for Lisp that provides a rich set of
features for building web applications, including support for client-side
scripting with AJAX and JavaScript. Here is an example of a simple Weblocks
application that responds to a GET request with an HTML page:
				
		(require :weblocks)
		
		(defclass hello-world-page (weblocks:page)
		  ((message :initarg :message :accessor message)))
		
		(defmethod initialize-instance :after ((page hello-world-page) &key &allow-other-keys)
		  (setf (message page) "Hello, world!"))
		
		(defmethod weblocks:render-body ((page hello-world-page))
		  (weblocks:with-html-output-to-string (*html-stream*)
		    (:html
		     (:head
		      (:title "Hello, world!"))
		     (:body
		      (:h1 (message page))))))
		
		(defun start-server ()
		  (weblocks:start
		   (make-instance 'weblocks:app
		                  :name "test"
		                  :dispatch-table '((:default . hello-world-page))
		                  :port 8080
		                  :external-format :utf-8)))

In this example, we define a class hello-world-page that extends the
weblocks:page class and defines a slot for a message to be displayed on the
page. We also define a method that sets the message to "Hello, world!" when a
new instance of the page class is initialized.

We then define a method weblocks:render-body that generates the HTML content of
the page using a weblocks:with-html-output-to-string macro. This macro provides
a convenient way to generate HTML content using Lisp expressions.

Finally, we define a function start-server that starts the Weblocks server on
port 8080 and registers the hello-world-page class as the handler for all URL
paths.

Overall, web frameworks such as Hunchentoot and Weblocks make it easy to build
web applications with Lisp by providing a rich set of tools and abstractions
for handling HTTP requests and generating responses. By leveraging the power
and flexibility of Lisp, developers can build web applications that are highly
modular, scalable, and efficient.


Examples:
Here's an example of how to generate HTML using the CL-WHO library:

		;; Load the CL-WHO library
		(ql:quickload :cl-who)
		
		;; Define a simple HTML page using CL-WHO
		(cl-who:with-html-output-to-string (s)
		  (:html
		    (:head
		      (:title "My Page"))
		    (:body
		      (:h1 "Welcome!")
		      (:p "This is my first Lisp-generated HTML page.")
		      (:p "It is so easy to create dynamic content with Lisp!"))))

Here's an example of how to generate HTML using the Closure-Template library:
		
		;; Load the Closure-Template library
		(ql:quickload :cl-closure-template)
		
		;; Define a template using Closure-Template
		(defvar *my-template*
		  (cl-closure-template:compile-template
		    "Welcome to my page!
		    <h1>{$title$}</h1>
		    <p>{$content$}</p>"))
		
		;; Use the template to generate HTML
		(cl-closure-template:fill-template *my-template*
		  '((title . "My Page")
		    (content . "This is my first Lisp-generated HTML page.
		                It is so easy to create dynamic content with Lisp!")))

And finally, here's an example of how to generate HTML using the HTML-TEMPLATE library:
		
		;; Load the HTML-TEMPLATE library
		(ql:quickload :html-template)
		
		;; Define a template using HTML-TEMPLATE
		(defparameter *my-template*
		  (html-template:make-template "<html>
		                                 <head><title>$title$</title></head>
		                                 <body>
		                                   <h1>Welcome to my page!</h1>
		                                   <p>$content$</p>
		                                 </body>
		                               </html>"))
		
		;; Use the template to generate HTML
		(html-template:merge *my-template*
		  '((title . "My Page")
		    (content . "This is my first Lisp-generated HTML page.
		                It is so easy to create dynamic content with Lisp!")))

Exercises:
Exercise 1: Building a web application using Hunchentoot

In this exercise, you will build a web application using the Hunchentoot web
framework. The application should have the following features:

  1. A homepage that displays a list of blog posts
  2. A blog post detail page that displays the full content of a blog post
  3. A form for creating a new blog post

Here are some steps to follow:
  5. Install Hunchentoot and any other libraries you need for this exercise.
  6. Define a blog-post class with properties such as title, content, and date.
  7. Define a blog class with a posts slot that contains a list of blog-post objects.
  8. Define routes for the homepage, blog post detail page, and new blog post form using Hunchentoot's routing API.
  9. Define handlers for each route that generate the appropriate HTML using a library such as CL-WHO or HTML-TEMPLATE.
  10. Add functionality to the new blog post form so that it creates a new blog-post object and adds it to the blog's posts slot.
  11. Start the Hunchentoot server and test your application in a web browser.


Exercise 2: Building a RESTful API using Caveman2

In this exercise, you will build a RESTful API using the Caveman2 web
framework. The API should have the following endpoints:

/users: returns a list of users
/users/:id: returns the user with the specified id
/users: creates a new user
/users/:id: updates the user with the specified id
/users/:id: deletes the user with the specified id

Here are some steps to follow:
  1. Install Caveman2 and any other libraries you need for this exercise. 
  2. Define a user class with properties such as name, email, and password. 
  3. Define a user-database class with methods for creating, reading, updating, and deleting users. 
  4. Define routes for each API endpoint using Caveman2's routing API. 
  5. Define handlers for each route that interact with the user-database to perform the appropriate CRUD operations. 
  6. Use a library such as CL-JSON or JSOWN to generate JSON responses for each endpoint. 
  7. Start the Caveman2 server and test your API using a tool such as Postman or cURL. 

Note: Caveman2 is just one of many web frameworks available for Lisp. You can
use any other framework that you are comfortable with for this exercise.

