
		Lisp Libraries and Tools

Quicklisp is a package manager for Common Lisp that simplifies the process of
downloading, installing, and managing external libraries. It makes it easy to
find, download, and install a wide range of Lisp libraries, and ensures that
all dependencies are properly managed.

To use Quicklisp, you first need to download and install it. This can be done
by following the instructions on the Quicklisp website
(https://www.quicklisp.org/beta/). Once Quicklisp is installed, you can use it
to manage your Lisp projects.

To download a library using Quicklisp, you can use the (ql:quickload
"library-name") function. This will download the specified library and all of
its dependencies, and load it into your Lisp environment. For example, to
download and load the cl-ppcre library (which provides Perl-compatible regular
expressions for Lisp), you can use the following command:

		(ql:quickload "cl-ppcre")

If the library is not already installed on your system, Quicklisp will download
it and install it for you. If the library has dependencies that are not
installed, Quicklisp will also download and install those dependencies.

You can also use Quicklisp to manage dependencies for your own Lisp projects.
To do this, you need to create a .asd file for your project that lists all of
the required libraries. Quicklisp will then use this file to download and
install all of the required libraries and their dependencies.

Quicklisp provides a number of other useful functions for managing packages and
dependencies. For example, you can use (ql:list-all) to list all of the
available libraries in the Quicklisp repository, and (ql:system-apropos
"keyword") to search for libraries that match a particular keyword.

Overall, Quicklisp makes it easy to manage external libraries and dependencies
in Common Lisp, and is an essential tool for Lisp developers.

Here's an example of how to use Quicklisp to manage dependencies in a Common Lisp application:

		;; Load Quicklisp
		(load (merge-pathnames "quicklisp/setup.lisp" (user-homedir-pathname)))
		
		;; Install dependencies
		(ql:quickload '(:my-library :my-other-library))
		
		;; Use the installed libraries
		(use-package :my-library)
		(use-package :my-other-library)
		
		;; Define and use functions from the libraries
		(defun my-function (arg)
		  (my-library-function arg))
		
		(my-other-library-function)

In this example, we first load Quicklisp by calling load with the path to the
setup.lisp file provided by Quicklisp. We then install our application's
dependencies by calling ql:quickload with a list of package names. Finally, we
use the use-package macro to import symbols from the installed packages, and
define and use functions from those packages as needed.

Note that Quicklisp will automatically download and install any dependencies of
the packages listed in ql:quickload. If any required libraries are missing,
Quicklisp will prompt the user to download and install them. This makes it easy
to manage dependencies and ensure that all required libraries are properly
installed.


Emacs and SLIME (Superior Lisp Interaction Mode) are the standard development
environment for Common Lisp. SLIME provides a set of features that enable
efficient and productive Common Lisp programming, such as code completion,
syntax highlighting, and interactive debugging.

SLIME's code completion feature makes it easy to browse and navigate the
functions and symbols defined in the code. Syntax highlighting helps in
visually distinguishing between different elements of the code, making it easy
to read and understand. Additionally, SLIME's interactive debugging
capabilities make it easy to locate and fix errors in the code.

To use SLIME, one needs to have Emacs installed, as well as the SLIME package.
Once installed, a user can start a Lisp REPL session and connect it to Emacs
using SLIME. From there, a user can interactively evaluate Lisp expressions,
debug code, and browse the documentation of libraries and functions.

One of the most important features of SLIME is its interactive debugging
capabilities. When an error occurs in the code, SLIME automatically enters the
debugger and presents the user with a detailed view of the stack trace, showing
where the error occurred and how the program reached that point. From there, a
user can use the REPL to evaluate expressions, inspect variables, and step
through the code to pinpoint the cause of the error.

In summary, Emacs and SLIME provide a powerful development environment for
Common Lisp that includes code completion, syntax highlighting, and interactive
debugging. These features make it easier to write, debug, and maintain Lisp
code, and can greatly improve a developer's productivity.


Configure Emacs and SLIME
and start a project:

Here's a step-by-step guide on how to configure Emacs and SLIME for a new
Common Lisp project:

   1. Install Emacs: If you haven't already, download and install Emacs for your
operating system. You can find installation instructions on the official Emacs
website.

   2. Install Quicklisp: Follow the instructions on the Quicklisp website to download
and install Quicklisp. This package manager will make it easy to install
external libraries for your Common Lisp project.

   3. Install SLIME: Open a terminal and enter the command sbcl --load
~/quicklisp/setup.lisp. This will start a Lisp REPL and load Quicklisp. Once
Quicklisp has loaded, enter the command (ql:quickload "quicklisp-slime-helper")
to install the SLIME package.

   4. Configure Emacs: Open your Emacs configuration file, which is typically located
at ~/.emacs.d/init.el. Add the following lines to your configuration file:

		(require 'package)
		(add-to-list 'package-archives '("melpa" . "http://melpa.org/packages/"))
		
		(setq inferior-lisp-program "sbcl")
		(add-to-list 'load-path "~/.emacs.d/slime/")
		(require 'slime-autoloads)
		(slime-setup '(slime-fancy))

The first two lines add the MELPA package archive to Emacs so that you can
easily install packages. The next two lines set up the path to the Lisp
interpreter, and add the SLIME package to Emacs. The last line sets up some
additional features for SLIME.

   5. Start a new project: To start a new Common Lisp project with SLIME, first
create a new directory for your project. In a terminal, navigate to the
directory and enter the command sbcl --load ~/quicklisp/setup.lisp. This will
start a Lisp REPL and load Quicklisp. Once Quicklisp has loaded, enter the
command (ql:quickload "your-project-name") to load any required libraries for
your project.

   6. Open your project in Emacs: Open Emacs and press Ctrl-X Ctrl-F to open a new
file. Navigate to your project directory and create a new file with the .lisp
extension. This will open the file in Lisp mode. Press Ctrl-C Ctrl-K to compile
the file and check for any syntax errors.

   7. Connect to SLIME: In the same file, press Ctrl-C Ctrl-Z to start a Lisp REPL in
a new Emacs window. This will automatically connect to the SLIME server running
in the terminal. You can now interact with your project using the REPL and the
Emacs editor.

With these steps, you should now have a fully functional development
environment for Common Lisp projects with Emacs and SLIME.

